README.md, before:

# NOTICE

This project is no longer actively maintained, it should still work for the foreseeable future

This is a fork of the original project, using wmenu instead of dmenu when called with `-D` parameter.
---

<p align="center">
    <a> <img src=.assets/logo.png></a>
    <br />
    <br />
	<a href="https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/pystardust/ytfzf?color=orange&logo=github&style=flat-square"></a>
	<a href="https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf/graphs/contributors"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/pystardust/ytfzf?style=flat-square"></a>
	<img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?color=%231831ad&message=Euro20179&label=Maintainer&style=flat-square" alt="Maintainer: Euro20179">
	<a href="https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf/releases/tag/v1.1.1"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/pystardust/ytfzf?style=flat-square"> </a>
	<a href="https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf/commits/master"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/pystardust/ytfzf?color=green&style=flat-square"></a>
	<a href="https://discord.gg/kupWznHjRJ"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/815609275644117022?color=yellow&logo=discord&style=flat-square" alt="Discord"></a>
	<a href="https://matrix.to/#/#ytfzf-chat:matrix.org"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?color=%230eb687&message=chat&logo=matrix&label=matrix&style=flat-square" alt="Discord"></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <i>A POSIX script that helps you find Youtube videos (without API) and opens/downloads them using mpv/youtube-dl</i>
	<hr>
</p>

<h1 align="center">
	This is a little showcase
</h1>
<p align="center">
<img src=.assets/ytfzf.gif width="100%">
</p>

---

# Table Of Contents

- [`Dependencies`](#Dependencies)
- [`Install`](#Install)
- [`Features`](#Features)
- [`Examples`](#Examples)
- [`Configuration`](#Configuration)
- [`Bugs`](#Bugs)
- [`Contributing`](#Contributing)
- [`Credits`](#Credits)

---

# Dependencies

There are only 2 required dependencies, however the rest require some configuration before you can replace them.

## Required dependencies

- [`jq`](https://github.com/stedolan/jq)
- [`curl`](https://github.com/curl/curl)

## Recommended dependencies

- [`mpv`](https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv) (the default video and audio player)
- [`fzf`](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) (the default menu selection screen)

## Optional dependencies

- [`yt-dlp`](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) (for downloading)
- [`wmenu`](https://sr.ht/~adnano/wmenu/) (dmenu replacement for wayland)
- [`ueberzugpp`](https://github.com/jstkdng/ueberzugpp)
  - needed for the following thumbnail viewers:
    - `kitty`, `iterm2`, `sixel`, and `ueberzug`
  - the original [`ueberzug`](https://github.com/seebye/ueberzug) or any fork may be used if you only want to use the `ueberzug` viewer.

### Thumbnail Viewers

- **To use a thumbnail viewer include `-T <viewer>` in the command when running ytfzf**

| Program                                                                | Wayland Support        |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------- |
| [`kitty`](https://github.com/kovidgoyal/kitty) (requires `ueberzugpp`) | &#9989;                |
| `iterm2` (requires `ueberzugpp`)                                       | &#9989;                |
| `sixel` (requires `ueberzugpp`)                                        | &#9989;                |
| `sway` (requires `ueberzugpp`)                                         | &#9989; (only on sway) |
| `wayland` (requires `ueberzugpp`)                                      | &#9989;                |
| [`chafa`](https://github.com/hpjansson/chafa)                          | &#9989;                |
| [`catimg`](https://github.com/posva/catimg)                            | &#9989;                |
| [`imv`](https://git.sr.ht/~exec64/imv)                                 | &#9989;                |
| [`mpv`](https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv)                             | &#9989;                |
| [`swayimg`](https://github.com/artemsen/swayimg)                       | only on `sway`         |
| [`swayimg`](https://github.com/artemsen/swayimg) (-T swayimg-hyprland) | only on `hyprland`     |

# Install

<a href="https://repology.org/metapackage/ytfzf">
    <img src="https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/ytfzf.svg" alt="Repo status" align="right">
</a>

**if on `linux` and installed using make on version `2.0` or prior, run `sudo make uninstall-old` first**

1. Install the dependencies listed [above](#Dependencies)
2. Run the following commands

```sh
git clone https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf
cd ytfzf
sudo make install doc
```

- If you wish to not install documentation (highly unrecommended) run `sudo make install` instead.

- If you wish to install addons, run `sudo make addons`

  - `YTFZF_SYSTEM_ADDONS_DIR` will point to `/usr/local/share/ytfzf/addons` even if you set `PREFIX` to something else
  - If you use a different prefix, it would be smart to export `YTFZF_SYSTEM_ADDONS_DIR` to `$PREFIX/share/ytfzf/addons` in a shell startup file.

- You may also install `ytfzf` through your package manager, as listed on the side.

## Addons

Addons are extra features that will not be as supported as everything built into `ytfzf` itself.

Addons are located in `addons`, copy any addon to `~/.config/ytfzf/{addon-type}/{addon}`, and give it execute permissions.

You may also just copy the entire addon folder type, eg: `cp -r addons/thumbnail-viewers ~/.config/ytfzf/`

### Usage

To use a scraper addon run `ytfzf -c <scraper> ...`

To use a thumbnail-viewer addon run `ytfzf -T <viewer> ...`

To use a interface addon run `ytfzf -i <interface> ...`

To use a url-handler addon run `ytfzf -u <handler> ...`

To use a sort-name addon run `ytfzf --sort-name=<sort-name> ...`

To use an extension addon run `ytfzf -e <extension> ...`

---

# Features

- Subscriptions
- Thumbnails
- Watch history
- Search History
- Downloading
- Queueing multiple videos
- Custom menus, and scrapers
- Addon support

---

# Examples

> Search with thumbnails

```sh
ytfzf -t <search>
```

> Use `wmenu` as the menu instead of `dmenu`

```sh
ytfzf -D <search>
```

> Print the link of the selected video instead of playing it

```sh
ytfzf -L <search>
```

> Search Odysee instead of youtube

```sh
ytfzf -cO <search>
```

> Use the chafa thumbnail viewer, pass --vo=sixel, and --quiet to mpv, scrape odysee with the search _odysee search_, youtube with the search: _youtube search_, and also scrape subscriptions

```sh
ytfzf -t -T chafa --url-handler-opts='--vo=sixel --quiet' -cO,Y,SI --multi-search odysee search,youtube search
```

---

# Configuration

Everything that is an option can also be configured in `~/.config/ytfzf/conf.sh`.

In addition, the video player and other things may be changed here

Here is a [sample configuration](docs/conf.sh) (please dont use it)

For more information, see `ytfzf(5)` which should be installed, if it's not see [the wiki](https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf/wiki).

---

# Bugs

- _dwm with swallow patch: Images don't render with ueberzug when looped (ie, option `-l`)_
- _if thumbnails are not working `.Xauthority` might be causing it. Try deleting it and relogging into your computer._
- When fzf is not set to 100% height, thumbnails may appear in the wrong position

# Contributing

Feel free to contribute, and add your name to the credits, please use the development branch. For more information see [contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md)

# Credits

| User          | Contributions                             | Donate |
| :------------ | :---------------------------------------- | :----- |
| Pystardust    | [contributions](credits/pystardust.md)    |        |
| Euro20179     | [contributions](credits/euro20179.md)     |        |
| Simonhughxyz  | [contributions](credits/simonhughxyz.md)  |        |
| Jac-Zac       | [contributions](credits/jac-zac.md)       |        |
| Mudskipper875 | [contributions](credits/mudskipper875.md) |        |
| Gardockt      | [contributions](credits/gardockt.md)      |        |
| qoheniac      | [contributions](credits/qoheniac.md)      |        |
| mathisto      | [contributions](credits/mathisto.md)      |        |

Commit message:

Use kitty as mpv vo driver

README.md, after:

# NOTICE

This project is no longer actively maintained, it should still work for the foreseeable future

This is a fork of the original project, using wmenu instead of dmenu when called with `-D` parameter. Additionally, we use Kitty as vo driver.
---

<p align="center">
    <a> <img src=.assets/logo.png></a>
    <br />
    <br />
	<a href="https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/pystardust/ytfzf?color=orange&logo=github&style=flat-square"></a>
	<a href="https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf/graphs/contributors"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/pystardust/ytfzf?style=flat-square"></a>
	<img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?color=%231831ad&message=Euro20179&label=Maintainer&style=flat-square" alt="Maintainer: Euro20179">
	<a href="https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf/releases/tag/v1.1.1"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/pystardust/ytfzf?style=flat-square"> </a>
	<a href="https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf/commits/master"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/pystardust/ytfzf?color=green&style=flat-square"></a>
	<a href="https://discord.gg/kupWznHjRJ"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/815609275644117022?color=yellow&logo=discord&style=flat-square" alt="Discord"></a>
	<a href="https://matrix.to/#/#ytfzf-chat:matrix.org"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?color=%230eb687&message=chat&logo=matrix&label=matrix&style=flat-square" alt="Discord"></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <i>A POSIX script that helps you find Youtube videos (without API) and opens/downloads them using mpv/youtube-dl</i>
	<hr>
</p>

<h1 align="center">
	This is a little showcase
</h1>
<p align="center">
<img src=.assets/ytfzf.gif width="100%">
</p>

---

# Table Of Contents

- [`Dependencies`](#Dependencies)
- [`Install`](#Install)
- [`Features`](#Features)
- [`Examples`](#Examples)
- [`Configuration`](#Configuration)
- [`Bugs`](#Bugs)
- [`Contributing`](#Contributing)
- [`Credits`](#Credits)

---

# Dependencies

There are only 2 required dependencies, however the rest require some configuration before you can replace them.

## Required dependencies

- [`jq`](https://github.com/stedolan/jq)
- [`curl`](https://github.com/curl/curl)

## Recommended dependencies

- [`mpv`](https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv) (the default video and audio player)
- [`fzf`](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) (the default menu selection screen)

## Optional dependencies

- [`yt-dlp`](https://github.com/yt-dlp/yt-dlp) (for downloading)
- [`wmenu`](https://sr.ht/~adnano/wmenu/) (dmenu replacement for wayland)
- [`ueberzugpp`](https://github.com/jstkdng/ueberzugpp)
  - needed for the following thumbnail viewers:
    - `kitty`, `iterm2`, `sixel`, and `ueberzug`
  - the original [`ueberzug`](https://github.com/seebye/ueberzug) or any fork may be used if you only want to use the `ueberzug` viewer.

### Thumbnail Viewers

- **To use a thumbnail viewer include `-T <viewer>` in the command when running ytfzf**

| Program                                                                | Wayland Support        |
| :--------------------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------- |
| [`kitty`](https://github.com/kovidgoyal/kitty) (requires `ueberzugpp`) | &#9989;                |
| `iterm2` (requires `ueberzugpp`)                                       | &#9989;                |
| `sixel` (requires `ueberzugpp`)                                        | &#9989;                |
| `sway` (requires `ueberzugpp`)                                         | &#9989; (only on sway) |
| `wayland` (requires `ueberzugpp`)                                      | &#9989;                |
| [`chafa`](https://github.com/hpjansson/chafa)                          | &#9989;                |
| [`catimg`](https://github.com/posva/catimg)                            | &#9989;                |
| [`imv`](https://git.sr.ht/~exec64/imv)                                 | &#9989;                |
| [`mpv`](https://github.com/mpv-player/mpv)                             | &#9989;                |
| [`swayimg`](https://github.com/artemsen/swayimg)                       | only on `sway`         |
| [`swayimg`](https://github.com/artemsen/swayimg) (-T swayimg-hyprland) | only on `hyprland`     |

# Install

<a href="https://repology.org/metapackage/ytfzf">
    <img src="https://repology.org/badge/vertical-allrepos/ytfzf.svg" alt="Repo status" align="right">
</a>

**if on `linux` and installed using make on version `2.0` or prior, run `sudo make uninstall-old` first**

1. Install the dependencies listed [above](#Dependencies)
2. Run the following commands

```sh
git clone https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf
cd ytfzf
sudo make install doc
```

- If you wish to not install documentation (highly unrecommended) run `sudo make install` instead.

- If you wish to install addons, run `sudo make addons`

  - `YTFZF_SYSTEM_ADDONS_DIR` will point to `/usr/local/share/ytfzf/addons` even if you set `PREFIX` to something else
  - If you use a different prefix, it would be smart to export `YTFZF_SYSTEM_ADDONS_DIR` to `$PREFIX/share/ytfzf/addons` in a shell startup file.

- You may also install `ytfzf` through your package manager, as listed on the side.

## Addons

Addons are extra features that will not be as supported as everything built into `ytfzf` itself.

Addons are located in `addons`, copy any addon to `~/.config/ytfzf/{addon-type}/{addon}`, and give it execute permissions.

You may also just copy the entire addon folder type, eg: `cp -r addons/thumbnail-viewers ~/.config/ytfzf/`

### Usage

To use a scraper addon run `ytfzf -c <scraper> ...`

To use a thumbnail-viewer addon run `ytfzf -T <viewer> ...`

To use a interface addon run `ytfzf -i <interface> ...`

To use a url-handler addon run `ytfzf -u <handler> ...`

To use a sort-name addon run `ytfzf --sort-name=<sort-name> ...`

To use an extension addon run `ytfzf -e <extension> ...`

---

# Features

- Subscriptions
- Thumbnails
- Watch history
- Search History
- Downloading
- Queueing multiple videos
- Custom menus, and scrapers
- Addon support

---

# Examples

> Search with thumbnails

```sh
ytfzf -t <search>
```

> Use `wmenu` as the menu instead of `dmenu`

```sh
ytfzf -D <search>
```

> Print the link of the selected video instead of playing it

```sh
ytfzf -L <search>
```

> Search Odysee instead of youtube

```sh
ytfzf -cO <search>
```

> Use the chafa thumbnail viewer, pass --vo=sixel, and --quiet to mpv, scrape odysee with the search _odysee search_, youtube with the search: _youtube search_, and also scrape subscriptions

```sh
ytfzf -t -T chafa --url-handler-opts='--vo=sixel --quiet' -cO,Y,SI --multi-search odysee search,youtube search
```

---

# Configuration

Everything that is an option can also be configured in `~/.config/ytfzf/conf.sh`.

In addition, the video player and other things may be changed here

Here is a [sample configuration](docs/conf.sh) (please dont use it)

For more information, see `ytfzf(5)` which should be installed, if it's not see [the wiki](https://github.com/pystardust/ytfzf/wiki).

---

# Bugs

- _dwm with swallow patch: Images don't render with ueberzug when looped (ie, option `-l`)_
- _if thumbnails are not working `.Xauthority` might be causing it. Try deleting it and relogging into your computer._
- When fzf is not set to 100% height, thumbnails may appear in the wrong position

# Contributing

Feel free to contribute, and add your name to the credits, please use the development branch. For more information see [contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md)

# Credits

| User          | Contributions                             | Donate |
| :------------ | :---------------------------------------- | :----- |
| Pystardust    | [contributions](credits/pystardust.md)    |        |
| Euro20179     | [contributions](credits/euro20179.md)     |        |
| Simonhughxyz  | [contributions](credits/simonhughxyz.md)  |        |
| Jac-Zac       | [contributions](credits/jac-zac.md)       |        |
| Mudskipper875 | [contributions](credits/mudskipper875.md) |        |
| Gardockt      | [contributions](credits/gardockt.md)      |        |
| qoheniac      | [contributions](credits/qoheniac.md)      |        |
| mathisto      | [contributions](credits/mathisto.md)      |        |
